Organization: SunPy in OpenAstronomy

**SunPy Gallery, Docs, Website Upgrades**

1.       **Student Information**

           Name: Hemant Khatri

           Time Zone : +05:30 GMT

           IRC Handle: hemant27

           Github ID: [hemantkhatri27](https://github.com/hemantkhatri27)

          Messaging: Google Hangout
([hemant.skhatri@gmail.com](mailto:hemant.skhatri@gmail.com))

2.        **University and Education**

          University: The LNM Institute of Information Technology

          Major: Computer Science and Engineering

-   Current Year: 1^st^

          Graduate Year: 2019

3.       **Programming Experience**

          Intermediate in  C language
 
          I recently  worked with a Professor on a research project
related to dark matter, dark energy, Gravitational waves in which I
worked with GNU plots and also involved a lot of C programming as well.

          Intermediate knowledge of Python and Python for Data Science.
I started learning Python about 2 months ago.

I am comfortable in writing programs in Python. Also, I am pretty
comfortable working  with Matplotlib.

          I did workout all the sample examples given in the
documentation analyzed on changing a particular attribute what changes
come to the LightCurve/Maps.

          I am comfortable working with Git/Github.

4.       **Proposal Abstract**

          I intend to take up the SunPy Gallery, Docs, Website upgrades
idea. This would involve some research on the SunPy existing tutorials
i.e. Lightcurve tutorial, SunPy overview and SunPy 0.6 Release Preview 
(which support Jupyter )as well as on the existing map and Lightcurves
submodules, data clipping, masking, map cubing etc.

          Also it would involve improving the SunPy documentation making
it more interactive for new users. Inserting more information on these (
Plotting in SunPy, Time in SunPy,Region of interest, Customizing SunPy)
would be my aim

          The work on the website of SunPy involves  writing blogs
improving documentation.

          For plotting I would use Matplotlib.

          I did checkout the SEP\_007 so I am pretty familiar with what
has been done till now on SunPy.

5.       **Software Packages  to be used**

Numpy, Matplotlib,Scipy,Astropy

 

6.       **How will I complete the Project**

          I started  looking into SunPy about 2-3 weeks back. I was
pretty active on IRC asking out mentors about SunPy. I am pretty
familiar with the software now. My main task is to look into all the
things I could do with Jupyter Notebooks(as I don’t know much about it).
On the programming part, i keep looking into Python Docs, Edx courses.

          I will go through the documentation again and again so that I
can make it better and better. Since the topic in spotlight is
LightCurves so I will try to add to the documentation of LightCurves as
much as possible.

          I am a beginner and did go through SunPy documentation lately,
so I remember on which topics I faced issues so will try to include them
so that new users don't face the issues I faced

          The website's gallery tab is in beta version so I will try to
improve the gallery and also if I am able to do major changes to SunPy ,
I will try preparing SunPy enhancement proposals(SEP).

 

 

7.       **Benefits to the Community**

          Since I started my journey of development in SunPy lately I
might be able to address more issues that beginners face than someone
else. The website of SunPy is still in development state until the
completion of my project it would be in a better state than it is at
present. Small things that otherwise may not come into notice of
developers will be solved as my main aim would be to work on
documentation, website etc.

8.       **Open Source experience**

          Google Code-In 2015: I participated in Google Code-In 2015 and
was successful in completing a task under the community FOSSAsia in
which I learned using Git, IRC, IRC etiquettes. Also, I did work on a
Hello World example task of RTEMS organization due to which I got to
know how to build things

          Recently I made 2 pull requests:

1.  [\#1710](https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/1710): It involved
    change in Developer’s guide document, also changed another file for
    the issue [\#1704](https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/issues/1704).

2.  [\#1707](https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/1707): This pull
    request tried to make a diskspace check before downloading sample
    data . My work on this is still on. 

I am a Ubuntu user for more than 6 months .

 

9.       **Deliverables**

Improvement in SunPy Docs(inserting new info as well).

Website improvement.

Adding Examples to SunPy gallery.

 

10.   **TIMELINE**

22 April -23 May (Community Bonding Period)

This period would be dedicated to knowing about the project more and
more. I would seek answers as in what format(bug fixes, tutorials,
SEP’s)  do my mentors want me to improve the website and the
documentation(Region Of Interest ,Customizing SunPy etc), which
subtopics does the SunPy community expect me to focus on the most.

**23 May – 20 June**

This period will be dedicated to inserting tasks in the Docs and
refactoring the Net Documentation. Probably improving present docs and
inserting new ones in SunPy User Guide (mainly Plotting in SunPy, Time
in SunPy, Region of Interest, Customizing SunPy) would be my main
target. Some  Possible options would be:

1.       Adding histogram, customization using Matplotlib basic tutorial
to this (Plotting in SunPy). – 1 week

2.       Since ROI module is still under development I will make it more
developed so that it contains more information about a particular time
range. 1-2 weeks

3.       Customizing SunPy contains docs related to only specifying
location of files being used. – 1 week

4.       SunPy lightcurve under API reference is probably too short. 
Adding more options to lightcurves such as merging two graphs or
customizing these curves . – 1 week

 

**20 June – 27 June**

Mid term evaluation

 

**27 June – 25 July**

This period will be dedicated to improving and adding examples to SunPy
gallery. Probably a SunPy map tutorial or I could also add some video
tutorials on basics of Lightcurves and Maps. Also, the main task would
be to make full use of Jupyter notebooks (which I would have learned by
then).  Adding tutorials for various options available with Matplotlib
could be one option as well.

 

**25 July- 15 August**

Insert Tasks for the Website would be done in this period. Also, I could
make the website layout a bit better as I know a bit of HTML/CSS as
well. 

 A much need FAQ section could be added to the website. Also, if time
permits I would add some tutorials for Astropy as well.

Would look forward to some bug fixing or further changes in
documentation.

 

**15 August – 23 August**

Final week: Students tidy code, write tests, improve documentation and
submit their code sample. Students also submit their final mentor
evaluation.

 

**23 August – 29 August**

Mentors submit final student evaluations.

 

**30 August**

Final results of Google Summer of Code 2016 announced.

Even after Google Summer of Code 2016 I will be a regular contributor of
Open Source .  

11.    **Commitments**

I have my end Semester exams from 15 April – 8 May so I won’t be able to
work much on the idea. Still I would try my best to take out 2-3 hours a
day for the project.

Also due to a family function in mid-June I might take 4-5 days off.
Rest I have no other summer plans so would be working around 6-7 hours a
day making it around 35-40 hours a week. I have 24\*7 access to
high-speed  internet. I have not participated in GSoC before and I am
not applying to any other organization .

12.   **About  Me**

I am a first-year Undergrad at The LNM Institute of Information
Technology, Jaipur, India.

My interests are Data science, Problem solving. I also took a course in
Discrete Mathematical Structures, Shell Programming . My open Source
journey began from November 2015 when I participated in Google Code-In.
Though I didn’t contribute much but I learned the basics of open source
i.e. Github, IRC etc. Other than Python I am pretty good at C
programming and also used it recently for my research project about
which I had mentioned earlier in this document. On the non-technical
side, I am a Badminton Player. 

13.   **Eligibility**

Yes, I am eligible to receive payments from Google. To contact do drop
me a mail
on [hemant.skhatri@gmail.com](mailto:hemant.skhatri@gmail.com) .

 

 

\
\

